RDS (Relational Database Service)
    AWS Managed Service to create PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, and Amazon Aurora in the cloud
    Scalability: Upto 5 Read replicas, replication is asynchronous so reads are eventually consistent.
    Availability use Multi-AZ Deployment, synchronous replication
    You can create a read replica in a different region of your running RDS instance. You pay for replication cross Region, but not for cross AZ.
    Automatic failover by switching the CNAME from primary to standby database
    Enable Password and IAM Database Authentication to authenticate using database password and user credentials through IAM users and roles, works with MySQL and PostgreSQL
    Enable Enhanced Monitoring to see percentage of CPU bandwidth and total memory consumed by each database process (OS process thread) in DB instance
    Enable Automated Backup for daily storage volume snapshot of your DB instance with retention-period from 1 day (default from CLI, SDK) to 7 days (default from console) to 35 days (max). Use AWS Backup service for retention-period of 90 days.
    To encrypt an unencrypted RDS DB instance, take a snapshot, copy snapshot and encrypt new snapshot with AWS KMS. Restore the DB instance with the new encrypted snapshot.

Amazon Aurora
    Amazon fully managed relational database compatible with MySQL and PostgreSQL
    Provide 5x throughput of MySQL and 3x throughput of PostgreSQL
    Aurora Global Database is single database span across multiple AWS regions, enable low-latency global reads and disaster recovery from region-wide outage. Use global database for disaster recovery having RPO of 1 second and RTO of 1 minute.
    Aurora Serverless capacity type is used for on-demand auto scaling for intermittent, unpredictable, and sporadic workloads.
    Typically operates as a DB cluster consist of one or more DB instances and a cluster volume that manages cluster data with each AZ having a copy of volume.
    Primary DB instance - Only one primary instance, supports both read and write operation
    Aurora Replica - Upto 15 replicas spread across different AZ, supports only read operation, automatic failover if primary DB instance fails, high availability
    
DynamoDB
    AWS proprietary, Serverless, managed NoSQL database
    Use to store JSON documents, or session data
    Use as distributed serverless cache with single-digit millisecond performance
    Planned Capacity provision WCU & RCU, can enable auto-scaling, good for predictable workloads
    On-demand Capacity unlimited WCU & RCU, more expensive, good for unpredictable workloads where read & write are less (low throughput)
    Add DAX (DynamoDB Accelerator) cluster in front of DynamoDB to cache frequently read values and offload the heavy read on hot keys of DynamoDB, prevent ProvisionedThroughputExceededException
    Enable DynamoDB Streams to trigger events on database and integrate with lambda function for e.g. send welcome email to user added into the table.
    Use DynamoDB Global Table to serve the data globally. You must enable DynamoDB Streams first to create global table.
    You can use Amazon DMS (Data Migration Service) to migrate from Mongo, Oracle, MySQL, S3, etc. to DynamoDB